Before anybody was talking about CI/CD or continuous delivery,
developers around the world were deploying software and delivering tremendous value.
But the process to get from concept to cash was often laborious.
Developers knew it could be better,
and often they try their hands at automating this and that.
Looking back over history,
seeing the advancements from independent developers stretching for something better,
the birth of CI/CD and continuous delivery was not
really a onetime event from some super genius.
It was more like synchronized swimming,
where everyone arrived at the same conclusion,
at the same time.
Continuous delivery was just the next natural step in our evolution as an industry.
Unfortunately, when you search around for
definitions and comparisons of continuous delivery,
continuous integration and continuous deployment,
you get plenty of conflicting views,
about all people can agree on is that they're all continuous.
So here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to give you my definitions,
which are influenced by the developer community and
my own experience in living in all three paradigms for more than 15 years.
This is the definition I'm going to use throughout the course.
So you can count on some consistency,
at least here in this course.
When you're done with this course,
you'll be free to adopt other people's views,
but at least you'll have a strong foundation.
I view continuous delivery as a mindset more than a tool.
It's an engineering paradigm in which teams produce and release value in short cycles.
To me, this can be done without tools and automation.
It's more about your approach to the work more than the work itself.
The concept of continuous integration fits
beautifully inside of the continuous delivery paradigm.
Continuous Integration is the practice of merging all developers
working copies to a shared main line several times a day.
The simple act of merging as a team opens the door to
many cool possibilities like triggering automatic compile sequences,
test runs, static analysis of code,
and the list goes on and on.
Like I said, you can deliver continuously without tools,
but CI tools sure make it easier,
faster, and more fun.
Continuous deployment also fits really nicely in the continuous delivery paradigm,
since it's a software engineering approach in
which value is delivered frequently through automated deployments.
Where continuous delivery differs from the other two is in its scope.
You see a mindset of continuous delivery effects and
colors every other part of a team's development process,
even while gathering requirements and grooming features,
before even one line of code has been written.